# Diagnostic Essay Prompt Notes

Should the national drinking age be lowered to 18.

- Raised to 21 in the late 1980s to reduce highway fatalities

- Believed to contribute to higher rates of binge drinking.

- Kids will always find a way to drink regardless of their age.

- Prohibition means underage persons will drink away from authority.

- Difficult / near-impossible to stop or enforce.

- Police chief (colorado) states enforcement is ineffective.
    - All successful enforcement just forces drinking "underground"
    - Abuse of alcohol such as DUIs should be more strictly enforced, not an 18 yo kid with a beer.

- Underage people will hide other underage people with alcohol poisoning because of the illegality
of the situation.

- At 18 you can buy firearms, serve on a jury, serve in the military, vote and smoke.
    - You are considered an adult in the eyes of the law at 18.

- 13% reduction in DUI fatalities between ages (18-21) after drinking age raised to 21.

- A decrease in highway deaths is commensurate with a rise in off-highway deaths.

- There is overwhelming evidence that prohibition does not work. The war on drugs is another such
failure.

# The Academic Writing Process

- Reading a text **actively**.
    - Annotations.
        - Connections.
        - Predictions.
        - Questions.
        - Observations.

- Understand the assignment.
    - Expectations.
    - Resources.
    - Rubric.

- Outline.
    - Planning.
    - Organization.

- Research and documentation.
    - Evidence to support thesis.
    - Cite all sources.
    - MLA citations.
    - Do not plagiarize.

- Drafting and revision.
    - Writing center.

- Editing
    - Peer review.

- Proofreading.


